---
layout: blog
title: 'Yes, President Trump Will Win Re-election'
date: 2019-07-18T00:21:47.933Z
image: /images/uploads/trump-grin.png
categories:
  - Politics
tags:
  - Donald Trump
  
type: "post"
---
New York Times columnist Thomas Friedman today asked a rhetorical question: [_Trump's Going to Get Re-elected, Isn't He?_](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/07/16/opinion/trump-2020.html)

The headline reflects the question he hears from his Democrat friends. They seem resigned to defeat. And the answer is: Yes. President Trump will win re-election in 2020. 

The reasons Trump will get re-elected:

1. **The Hate Squad**. Four radical communist freshmen Representatives are the face of the new Democrat party. They are anti-Semitic, anti-Christian, and anti-American. They want you and me dead. They are not adversaries, but true enemies. Enemies of America as much as Nazi Germany and the USSR. As they continue to dominate news cycles, President Trump looks ever more like a stable genius by comparison. 

2. **The Economy.** The United States' economy is easily the strongest it has ever been. Stronger than the Reagan years. Stronger than the Clinton years. Stronger than the 1950s. Unemployment for everyone except white males is at an all-time low. 

3. **The World**. After eight years of a president who bad-mouthed his own country while agreeing with every foreign criticism of the United States and of Americans, Donald Trump has restored international respect for the United States. Sure, foreign "leaders" publicly and privately disparage the President. They do it because Donald Trump has exposed their idiotic elitist agenda. Their agenda was and is intended to sponge off the wealth generated by hard-working American people. Donald Trump is cutting off their gravy train, and they hate it. But they will not cross us. They wouldn't dare. 

4. **The Donald**. The most important reason Trump will win is Trump. He is a genius strategist. When Nancy Pelosi had nearly succeeded in isolating and marginalizing The Hate Squad, Donald Trump turned that Hate Squad into the face of the Democrat Party. And the de facto majority leadership of the House Democrat caucus. With three tweets, President Trump made The Hate Squad the only news Democrats can generate. 

In a little more than a year, some hapless Democrat will slither onto the stage at Washington University to serve as the mop with which Donald Trump wipes the floor. A month later, CNN's panel will cry and curse as Trump passes 273. 

And that's when things will get ugly. That's when the radical left convinces itself that its only path to dominance will be through violence. And they will attack. Guerrilla warfare. In the streets, in theatres, and, especially, in churches. 

When President Trump wins re-election, the [climax is right around the corner](https://www.hennessysview.com/posts/2019/a-fourth-turning-warning-for-america/).
